>> Ben Hong: So another problem that comes
across a lot of developers as they're
growing as a VUE developer, is at some
point they need to access a child
components, data or
methods from the parent.
And now this might sound a little
odd because most of us are, well,
let's face it, the standard data flow
model we're used to is top down, right?
Parent passes stuff to the child, child
does stuff with it, and then if anything,
we have an event that like we
emit something that comes up just
like standard web model, and
then again it just flows down.
However, there are times where
you're just simply not gonna have
the ability to do so.
It might be because you're using a third
party library or maybe you're a library
author, where you don't know what context
your component is going to be ingested in.
These are great candidates for
this concept, known as scope slots.
On the podcast episode we did for
Frontend Masters,
we were talking about one of the most
commonly confused concepts of vue.
And I would say that in my teaching
experience, scope slots tends to be
the one that a lot of people quite grasp
because I think it's kind of unintuitive.
And then, but hopefully we're gonna go
over this, it'll make more sense to people
and they'll feel more comfortable using it
in their component design as they see fit.
Okay, so, okay, so let's go ahead and
what we're going to do,
we're going to create a.
Let's do a slot demo V and
then call it Slot Demo and
then we'll make sure it
renders on our Sandbox page.
All right, this time I'm actually
going to delete some of this stuff so
that we are Slot demo perfect.
Great.
Flip.
All right, so
going back to our Sandbox page, all right,
we have a slot demo component
is rendering, great.
So here's the kind of problem
that ends up happening is that in
the event we have some.
Okay, so let's go ahead and actually
let me slide up my slot demo here.
And we're gonna go ahead and
we're gonna do main and
we're gonna do three different blocks.
Okay, we're gonna have a slot for
the header, we're gonna have the default.
So let's see, boom, slot demo title.
So this is how you set like default
content in case no one sets it up.
Then you have your default slot,
which is where everything else will go.
And I'm going to do one more
name slot called Footer.
And then like this is the bottom.
Okay, now that we have this,
the way we have our sandbox page.
Actually let me close some of these so
we actually clean up the files up here
a bit so it's easier for everyone.
Don't save that.
The way this would work is right
within the typical slot component,
you would have a template that would
then have the V slot pass with the name.
So in this case, let's say actually we
don't need header actually right now
because that has demo content.
So let's just call this and
say here is my normal body content.
And then we'll also have a template for
the footer.
This is my footer content.
And so if we save this and look over here,
you'll see here do to do
slot demo title is here.
And then we might have noticed
that that footer content and
the main content is not showing up.
Is it because of this?
There we go, okay, sorry.
What we saw here, actually I should demo
that is that when you have a template
here without basically designating
what slot it is, as you can see here,
it doesn't actually know where to go.
And so if you wanted to wrap it in
a template block, you can basically,
it's called default,
you can just wrap it like this.
And we can see here we
still have all three.
Now if we can envision now
slot demo has some data
that we want to get access to, right?
So let's just use the simple counter
example in this particular case.
And so it's keeping track
of the current count and
we'll just make it at a ref of 10.
And so typically you would think,
okay, well again,
this is a component I
want to render my things.
I'm going to say, well,
current count is this.
And so now if I go ahead and
take out the default slot,
we'll see here, as you would expect,
current count is 10.
Right?
That makes sense.
The concept of scope slots is what
happens when you need the parent
to actually kind of get
access to the data so
that it can rearrange the way it
actually wants it to be displayed.
So in this case, let's say the parent is
unable to reach into the child to say.
Actually what I wanted to say
is current count is even, right?
So what you would need to do in this
case is you would actually need to scope
slots is this concept of
basically passing data into
a slot as a prop that then
surfaces to the parent.
So think of it as a backward slot, and
this is one of the reasons
why it's kind of weird.
So what do I mean by that?
So we'll demo this real quick.
We have our default slot here, right?
And what we're going to do is we'll say,
okay, we're passing the count.
This is like defining any other prop for
any other component.
We're defining a prop called count.
Although to be clear,
there's no defined props up here.
This is clearly just on the slot and we're
passing it the value of current count.
Although I need to bind this.
Okay, so
all we've done is give a prop to a slot.
That's all we've done so far.
Now what we're going to do is inside,
I'll be explicit with this one, so
that's easy to see,
is that you're going to be able to access
your slot props through this,
basically by accessing the value.
So I usually like to demo it like this.
So you get access to
the slot props object,
which you can already see has
the property count on it waiting for you.
So now I can be like,
this is my cool slot props count.
You can see here.
Now the parent is the one controlling how
the data from the child is being rendered.
Again, you might be thinking, okay,
when would I normally use this?
And the fact is you normally wouldn't,
right?
This is part of the whole
intermediate view thing, right?
This is a common example.
Let's say you're designing a select input.
As we know, select dropdowns, they have a
lot of different stylings that can be used
in a lot of different scenarios.
So you might want to create a generic
select dropdown that provides all
the options, all the data it needs, but
the context in which it's being used.
Maybe in one select dropdown you have
a picture being rendered on the left hand
side with some text and
it has different styles.
The scope slots, or
what I like to call slot props,
allow you to basically have a generic
component that then someone ingests and
then can control how things
are being displayed.
Again.
So typically used for
third party libraries, a perfect
example of this is view multiselect.
This one.
There we go.
So we can see here, right, this is
an example of a dropdown where you have
the license on the left, but then you
have images and stuff on the right.
But then if we take a look at some of
the other custom option templates,
I mean you can see here, in this case
they want the image on the left,
they want the text on the right.
And so what you'll see here is they're
actually exposing the template, right?
And they're saying, here are the props.
And then just display normal
HTML as you want, right?
The props have already been defined.
Take the image, take the labels,
style it however you see fit.
Because if you're the author of this
library for multi select, first of all,
whoever's using it cannot just
reach into your component to do it.
You're providing a generic functionality,
which is to be able to provide things
like multiple tagging, searching.
Like, you're providing generic logic and
functionality for
the component, styling and stuff.
That's up to how they ingest it.